>> JEFF ROSSEN IS HERE TO SHOW US.
>> GOOD MORNING. IT'S MONDAY.
WE'RE ALL ACUTELY AWARE. BACK AT WORK.
AND SO IS THE PRESIDENT. HE SPENDS MANY WEEKENDS AWAY
FROM WASHINGTON AND INCLUDING THIS PAST WEEKEND.
WHEN HE'S NOT AT THE WHITE HOUSE, THERE'S A MASSIVE
MILITARY EFFORT TO KEEP HIM SAFE.
THE ENTIRE AREA FROZEN. ONE OF THE BIGGEST THREATS FROM
THE AIR, PLANES GETTING TOO CLOSE.
WHAT HAPPENS WHEN A ROGUE AIRCRAFT FLIES NEAR THE
PRESIDENT AND WON'T LEAVE THE AIR SPACE.
THIS MORNING, WE'RE GETTING ACCESS UP CLOSE WITH FIGHTER
JETS IN ACTION. >> PRESIDENT TRUMP IS ON THE
MOVE. SPENDING TIME AWAY FROM THE
WHITE HOUSE, TO HIS MAR-A-LAGO REPORT, AND HIS GOLF COURSE IN
NEW JERSEY. ON THE GROUND, HEAVY SECURITY
YOU CAN SEE. IN THE AIR, IT'S JUST AS
INTENSE. BUT MOST OF US NEVER GET TO SEE
IT, UNTIL NOW. THE AIR NATIONAL GUARD
PROTECTING THE SKIES AND GIVING US RARE ACCESS.
>> WHEN THE PRESIDENT MOVES AROUND, THE FEDERAL AVIATION
ADMINISTRATION PUTS A TEMPORARY FLIGHT RESTRICTION IN PLACE AND
WE DEFEND IT. >> Reporter: WHAT HAPPENS IF AN
UNIDENTIFIED AIRCRAFT FLIES INTO THE NO-FLY ZONE, RIGHT INTO THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES. WE SET UP A DEMO WITH THIS
CESSNA AND THE AIR NATIONAL GUARD.
I'M GOING TO BE INSIDE THIS CESSNA AND WE'RE GOING ROGUE.
WE'RE GOING TO FLY INTO THAT NO-FLY ZONE AND SEE HOW THE AIR
NATIONAL GUARD DOES IT. THEY SCRAMBLE THE FIGHTER JETS
NEAR US AND HOW THEY GET US DOWN TO THE GROUND AND SAFE.
WE BARREL DOWN THE RUNWAY. >> TAKEOFF, WE'RE OFF.
>> Reporter: FLYING FOR MILES AND MILES.
UNTIL -- WE JUST ASKED THE NO-FLY ZONE.
OUR PILOTS AREN'T TALKING TO AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL, IGNOING THEIR
CALLS TO REACH THEM. THAT TRIGGERS AN ALARM AT THE
AIR NATIONAL GUARD BASE. THESE FIGHTER PILOTS SCRAMBLING
TO THEIR JETS. THEY'RE ON ALERT AND READY TO
TAKE ACTION 24 HOURS A DAY. TODAY, RACING TO THEIR F-16s.
SUITING UP, CLIMBING ONBOARD AND RUSHING TO THE RUNWAY.
TAKING OFF TO INTERCEPT OUR ROGUE CESSNA.
REACHING THE TARGET IN JUST MINUTES.
THIS IS THE VIEW FROM THE F-16. THAT'S MY CESSNA RIGHT THERE.
WHOA. YOU CAN ACTUALLY HEAR -- I DON'T
KNOW IF YOU CAN HEAR IT ON CAMERA, YOU CAN HEAR THAT
FIGHTER JET COMING BY. THERE'S NO WAY YOU TONIGHT HEAR
THIS OR NOTICE IT. COMING UP ON THE LEFT SIDE OF
OUR PLANE. THAT'S AS INTIMIDATING AS YOU
THINK IT WOULD BE. THAT'S THE FIGHTER JET ON OUR
WING. ANOTHER FIGHTER JET SWOOPING IN
ON THE RIGHT. YOU HAVE BEEN INTERCEPTED.
IF YOU HEAR THIS CALL, IDENTIFY YOURSELF.
>> Reporter: WE'RE A ROGUE AIRCRAFT.
WE'RE NOT GOING TO RESPOND AT ALL AND SEE WHAT THE FIGHTER JET
DOES. THE FIGHTER RIGHT ON OUR WING.
SCANNING US INSIDE. WHAT'S HE TRYING TO DO?
>> TRYING TO FIGURE OUT WHO WE ARE, WHAT'S INSIDE AND WHAT
WE'RE UP TO. >> Reporter: AND MAKE RADIO
CONTACT AND TELL US TO DO WHAT? FOLLOW HIM?
>> THAT'S CORRECT. >> Reporter: THE FIEGERS WANT TO
ESCORT US OUT OF THE AREA. THE F-16 MAKES A BOLD MOVE.
SWOOPING IN RIGHT THERE. HE'S CROSSING RIGHT IN FRONT OF
US. THE F-16 CROSSES RIGHT IN FRONT,
JUST FEET FROM US. HARD TO MISS AND THAT'S THE
POINT. THAT'S AN AGGRESSIVE MANEUVER.
>> HE'S TRYING TO GET OUR ATTENTION.
>> Reporter: THIS IS RESTRICTED AIR SPACE RIGHT ABOVE THE
PRESIDENT'S VACATION HOME. >> ARE YOU ORDERED TO TURN TO
THE NORTHWEST. >> Reporter: THE FIGHTER JET
GIVING US ONE LAST MORNING, TURNING AWAY, HOPING WE FOLLOW.
IF AFTER ALL OF THIS, THE PLANE WON'T LEAVE THE AIR SPACE, WILL
YOU SHOOT THEM DOWN? >> IF REQUIRED, WE'LL EXKATE THE
RULES OF ENGAGEMENT. AND, YES, WE WOULD DO THAT.
>> Reporter: SHOOT THE PLANE DOWN.
>> IF IT MEETS THE RULES OF ENGAGEMENT, YES, WE WOULD, TO
PROTECT AIR SPACE. >> Reporter: WITH THE PRESIDENT
TRAVELING SO MUCH, IT GETS EXPENSIVE.
A GOVERNMENT WATCHDOG GROUP TELLING US THEY'RE GOING TO
RELEASE NEW NUMBERS THIS WEEK. THE AIR NATIONAL GUARD DOESN'T
JUST DO THIS TO PROTECT THE PRESIDENT.
THE SAME RULES APPLY TO BIG EVENTS.
SINCE 9/11, THEY HAVE SCRAMBLED FIGHTER JETS TO 5,000 POSSIBLE
THREATS. THIS HAPPENS MORE OFTEN THAN WE